**Selection:**

**1.** Write a C program that takes an integer input and determines
whether it\'s positive, negative, or zero.

Input: -5

Output: The entered number is negative.

**2.** Create a program that reads two integers and prints the larger
one using a conditional statement (if-else).

Input:

Enter the first integer: 24

Enter the second integer: 37

Output: The larger integer is 37.

**3.** Develop a C program that calculates the roots of a quadratic
equation given the coefficients a, b, and c.

Input:

Enter the coefficient a: 2

Enter the coefficient b: -5

Enter the coefficient c: -3

Output: Roots of the quadratic equation are: 3.00 and -0.50

**4.** Write a program to find the maximum of three numbers using nested
if-else statements.

Input:

Enter the first number: 18

Enter the second number: 27

Enter the third number: 22

Output: The maximum number is 27.

**5.** Implement a C program that reads a character and determines
whether it\'s a vowel or a consonant using a switch statement.

Input:

Enter a character: e

Output: The entered character \'e\' is a vowel.

6\. Write a C program to determine the greatest of three numbers using
nested ternary operators.

Input:

Enter three numbers: 7 12 5

Output: The greatest number is 12

**7.** Develop a program that calculates the total cost of a car rental.
The cost depends on the number of days the car is rented and the type of
car chosen (economy, standard, luxury). The cost per day for each type
of car is different. The program should ask the user for the number of
days and the car type, then calculate and display the total cost. Car
Type Pricing:

\- Economy: \$30 per day

\- Standard: \$50 per day

\- Luxury: \$100 per day

Input: Enter the number of days: 5

Enter car type (1=economy, 2=standard, 3=luxury): 2

Output: Total cost: \$250

**8.** Develop a C program to classify a given year as a leap year or
not.

Sample Input:

Enter a year: 2024

Sample Output: 2024 is a leap year.

**9.** Write a program that takes a character input and determines
whether it\'s an uppercase letter, lowercase letter, digit, or special
character.

Input:

Enter a character: G

Sample Output: G is an uppercase letter.

**10.** Implement a C program that calculates the final grade for a
student based on their exam score and attendance percentage.

Input:

Enter exam score: 89

Enter attendance percentage: 92

Sample Output: Final grade: A

**Loop:**

**1.** Write a program that calculates the sum of the first N even
numbers using a single while loop.

Input: 5

Output: Sum of first 5 even numbers: 30

**2.** Write a program to calculate the sum of the squares of the first
N natural numbers using a single while loop.

Input: 4

Output: Sum of squares: 30

**3.** Implement a program to calculate the factorial of a number using
a do-while loop.

Input:

Enter a number: 4

Output: The factorial of 4 is 24

**4.** Write a program that reads positive integers until a negative
integer is entered and then calculates the sum of the positive integers.

Input:

Enter positive integers: 10 5 8 -1

Output: Sum of positive integers: 23

**5.** Develop a C program that prints the terms of the Fibonacci series
that are less than a given limit using a single loop.

Sample Input:

Enter the limit: 100

Output: Fibonacci series terms less than 100: 0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13 21 34 55
89

**6.** Write a program that calculates the sum of all odd numbers
between 1 and N using a while loop.

Input: Enter a value for N: 10

Output: Sum of odd numbers: 25

**7.** Create a C program to find the factorial of a given number using
a do-while loop.

Input:

Enter a positive integer: 6

Output: 720

**8.** Implement a program that prints the multiplication table for a
given number using a for loop.

Sample Input: Enter a number: 7

Output:

Multiplication table of 7:

7 x 1 = 7

7 x 2 = 14

\...

7 x 10 = 70

**9.** Write a C program to generate a series of squares of numbers up
to N using a loop.

Input: 5

Output:

Squares of numbers up to 5:

1\^2 = 1

2\^2 = 4

3\^2 = 9

4\^2 = 16

5\^2 = 25

**10.** Develop a program that calculates the sum of the digits of a
given positive integer using a loop.

Input: Enter a positive integer: 12345

Output:

Sum of digits: 15

**Nested Loop:**

**1.** Write a C program to print the pattern of a half-pyramid of
numbers, where each row contains the digits of the row number.

Input:

Enter the number of rows: 5

Output:

1

12

123

1234

12345

**2.** Develop a program that prints a pattern of characters in the form
of a mirrored right-angled triangle.

Input:

Enter the height of the triangle: 4

Output:

\*\*\*\*

\*\*\*

\*\*

\*

**3.** Create a C program that generates a pattern of the alphabet
letters, with each row containing the corresponding letters in ascending
order.

Input:

Enter the number of rows: 5

Output:

A

AB

ABC

ABCD

ABCDE

**4.** Implement a program that prints the pattern of a square spiral
arrangement of numbers.

Input: 4

Output:

1 2 3 4

12 13 14 5

11 16 15 6

10 9 8 7

**5.** Create a program that prints a pattern of a hollow pyramid using
nested loops.

Input: 4

Output:

\*

\* \*

\* \*

\*\*\*\*\*

**6.** Write a C program to print a pattern of alphabets in a
right-angled triangle using nested loops.

Input: 5

Output:

A

B B

C C C

D D D D

E E E E E

**7.** Implement a program that prints a pattern of numbers in a half
diamond shape using nested loops.

Input:

Enter the height of the diamond: 4

Output:

1

12

123

1234

123

12

1

**8.** Develop a program that prints a pattern of stars in a hollow
diamond shape using nested loops.

Input: 5

Output:

\*

\* \*

\* \*

\* \*

\* \*

\* \*

\* \*

\* \*

\*

**9.** Write a C program to print the multiplication table of numbers
from 1 to N using nested loops.

Input:

Enter the value of N: 3

Sample Output:

Multiplication Table:

1 x 1 = 1 2 x 1 = 2 3 x 1 = 3

1 x 2 = 2 2 x 2 = 4 3 x 2 = 6

1 x 3 = 3 2 x 3 = 6 3 x 3 = 9

**10.** Create a program that prints a pattern of numbers in a
right-angled triangle (with numbers increasing in every row) using
nested loops.

Input: 4

Output:

1

1 2

1 2 3

1 2 3 4

**Array 1D:**

**1.** Write a program to find the sum and average of elements in an
array of integers.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 5

Enter the elements: 10 25 15 30 20

Output:

Sum of elements: 100

Average of elements: 20.00

**2.** Create a C program that reverses the elements of an integer
array.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 6

Enter the elements: 3 8 5 1 9 2

Output:

Reversed array: 2 9 1 5 8 3

**3.** Implement a program to find the largest and smallest element in
an array.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 4

Enter the elements: 15 10 25 5

Output:

Largest element: 25

Smallest element: 5

**4.** Write a program to check if an array is palindrome (reads the
same forwards and backwards).

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 6

Enter the elements: 4 8 6 6 8 4

Output: The array is a palindrome.

**5.** Develop a C program that removes duplicate elements from an array
and prints the modified array.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 8

Enter the elements: 2 3 5 2 8 5 7 9

Output: Modified array: 2 3 5 8 7 9

**6.** Write a program to calculate the product of all elements in an
array of integers.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 6

Enter the elements: 2 3 5 7 4 6

Sample Output:

Product of elements: 5040

**7.** Create a C program that finds the second largest element in an
array of integers.

Input: Enter the number of elements: 5

Enter the elements: 12 5 8 20 10

Output: Second largest element: 12

**8.** Implement a program that calculates the sum of elements at even
indices and the product of elements at odd indices in an array of
integers.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 7

Enter the elements: 2 3 5 7 4 6 8

Output:

Sum of elements at even indices: 22

Product of elements at odd indices: 120

**9.** Write a program that finds the frequency of each element in an
array of integers.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 8

Enter the elements: 3 4 2 4 5 3 2 5

Output:

Element 2 occurs 2 times

Element 3 occurs 2 times

Element 4 occurs 2 times

Element 5 occurs 2 times

**10.** Develop a C program that finds the median of an array of
integers.

Input:

Enter the number of elements: 7

Enter the elements: 5 3 8 2 7 1 6

Output: 5

**Array 2D:**

**1.** Write a C program to perform matrix addition of two 2D arrays.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 3

Enter elements of the first matrix:

2 3 5

7 8 1

4 6 9

Enter elements of the second matrix:

1 2 4

3 6 8

5 9 7

Output:

Resultant matrix after addition:

3 5 9

10 14 9

9 15 16

**2.** Create a program that finds the transpose of a given square
matrix.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3

Enter matrix elements:

2 3 5

7 8 1

4 6 9

Output:

Transpose of the matrix:

2 7 4

3 8 6

5 1 9

**3.** Implement a program to calculate the product of two matrices.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns for matrix A: 2 3

Enter elements of matrix A:

2 3 5

7 8 1

Enter the number of rows and columns for matrix B: 3 2

Enter elements of matrix B:

1 2

3 6

5 9

Output:

Resultant matrix after multiplication:

31 63

35 82

**4.** Write a program to find the sum of each row and each column in a
2D array.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 4

Enter matrix elements:

10 5 8 12

17 9 6 4

14 20 3 11

Output:

Sum of each row:

Row 1: 35

Row 2: 36

Row 3: 48

Sum of each column:

Column 1: 41

Column 2: 34

Column 3: 17

Column 4: 27

**5.** Develop a C program that checks whether a given 2D array is
symmetric.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 3

Enter matrix elements:

1 2 3

2 4 5

3 5 6

Output:

The matrix is not symmetric.

**6.** Write a program to perform matrix subtraction of two 2D arrays.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 3

Enter elements of the first matrix:

2 3 5

7 8 1

4 6 9

Enter elements of the second matrix:

1 2 4

3 6 8

5 9 7

Output:

Resultant matrix after subtraction:

1 1 1

4 2 -7

-1 -3 2

**7.** Create a program that finds the sum of the diagonal elements of a
square matrix.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 4

Enter matrix elements:

2 3 5 7

1 4 8 2

9 6 3 5

2 1 7 6

Output:

Sum of diagonal elements: 15

**8.** Implement a program to find the largest element in each row of a
2D array.

Input: Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 4

Enter matrix elements:

10 5 8 12

17 9 6 4

14 20 3 11

Output:

Largest elements in each row:

Row 1: 12

Row 2: 17

Row 3: 20

**9.** Write a program that calculates the product of each column in a
2D array.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 3 3

Enter matrix elements:

2 3 4

1 2 3

4 5 6

Output:

Product of elements in each column:

Column 1: 8

Column 2: 30

Column 3: 72

**10.** Develop a C program that checks whether a given 2D array is
upper triangular.

Input:

Enter the number of rows and columns: 4

Enter matrix elements:

1 2 3 4

0 5 6 7

0 0 8 9

0 0 0 10

Output: The matrix is an upper triangular matrix.
